IT seems the big bucks have dulled the form of Platinum Stars forward Mogakolodi Ngele. The Botswana international is yet to find the back of the net in open play this season since Mamelodi Sundowns tempted him into moving from the North West to Chloorkop. Ngele, who remains on loan at Dikwena and won't join Sundowns before next season, has been accused of putting in half-hearted performances since the start of the campaign. A combination of a lack of interest and the fat pay cheque dangled by the Brazilians have been cited as reasons for the lacklustre displays. "I don't know, maybe it's pressure," said Stars coach Allan Freese. "Youngsters often find themselves in situations like this. where they are expected to perform consistently. "But he is doing his best to regain the form that made him one of the most feared forwards in the country last season. He's been working hard and we've also been encouraging him as we believe in him." Ngele scored 10 goals in 28 matches in all competitions last season, sparking the interest from Sundowns. But his return has been measly at best this season after failing to find the back of the net in five outings in all competitions. This could explain his omission from the squad that was billed to play against Moroka Swallows before all the PSL games were postponed yesterday. Freese, however, was quick to give reasons for his unavailability. "He got a knock in our last game against Chiefs [in the Telkom Knockout]. He did not train for the past two days and we are not going to rush him," said Freese. "Yes, he has been struggling a little bit because of injuries. Besides, he has been away doing duty for his country, and he is doing well at training, which is a good sign that he will be back to his best in no time." Dikwena have been a shadow of the team that won two cup competitions - the Telkom Knockout and the MTN8 - last season, and they are now even struggling to haul themselves away from the dangerous end of the premiership standings.